docs/introduction.rst, before:

Introduction to Did You Feel It? (DYFI)
---------------------------------------

The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) “Did You Feel It?” (DYFI) system is an automated approach for rapidly collecting macroseismic intensity data from Internet users’ shaking and damage reports and generating intensity maps immediately following earthquakes. It has been operating since 1999.

DYFI intensity maps are made quickly (within minutes), and provide greater quantities and coverage of data, at higher resolution, than traditional intensity maps. They also provide for citizen input and engagement which is crucial in the days and weeks following an event. Finally, after decades of operations, DYFI is now a vast source of historic macroseismic data from the USA and around the globe. 

However, web-based contributions also pose considerable challenges compared to traditional methods. We document a new implementation of the DYFI system using modern, open source programming and development tools.

For a scientific overview of the DYFI system, see: 

    Wald, D.J., V. Quitoriano, C.B. Worden, M. Hopper, and J. W. Dewey (2012). USGS “Did You Feel It?” Internet-based Macroseismic Intensity Maps. Annals of Geophysics, 54, No. 6, 2011; doi: 10.4401/ag-5354

Organization of this manual
...........................

This Manual is split into five parts.

- For an explanation of the products and formats produced by DYFI suitable for end-product users, see the :doc:`Product Guide <product-guide>`.

- For the details of the DYFI algorithms see :doc:`Scientific Discussion <scientific-discussion>`.

- For an in-depth look at DYFI architecture and operations, see the :doc:`Technical Guide <technical-guide>`.

- For notes on the implemention of DYFI (and possible guidance on installing it on your own system), see the :doc:`Implementation Guide <implementation-guide>`.

- Code documentation can be found in the :doc:`Program List <modules>`.

Commit message:

Update docs with DYFI questionnaire

docs/introduction.rst, after:

Introduction to Did You Feel It? (DYFI)
---------------------------------------

The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) “Did You Feel It?” (DYFI) system is an automated approach for rapidly collecting macroseismic intensity data from Internet users’ shaking and damage reports and generating intensity maps immediately following earthquakes. It has been operating since 1999.

DYFI intensity maps are made quickly (within minutes), and provide greater quantities and coverage of data, at higher resolution, than traditional intensity maps. They also provide for citizen input and engagement which is crucial in the days and weeks following an event. Finally, after decades of operations, DYFI is now a vast source of historic macroseismic data from the USA and around the globe. 

However, web-based contributions also pose considerable challenges compared to traditional methods. We document a new implementation of the DYFI system using modern, open source programming and development tools.

For a scientific overview of the DYFI system, see: 

    Wald, D.J., V. Quitoriano, C.B. Worden, M. Hopper, and J. W. Dewey (2011). USGS “Did You Feel It?” Internet-based Macroseismic Intensity Maps. Annals of Geophysics, 54, No. 6. doi: 10.4401/ag-5354

Organization of this manual
...........................

This Manual is split into several parts.

- For an explanation of the products and formats produced by DYFI suitable for end-product users, see the :doc:`Product Guide <product-guide>`.

- For the details of the DYFI algorithms see :doc:`Scientific Discussion <scientific-discussion>`.

- For an in-depth look at DYFI architecture and operations, see the :doc:`Technical Guide <technical-guide>`.

- For notes on the implemention of DYFI (and possible guidance on installing it on your own system), see the :doc:`Implementation Guide <implementation-guide>`.

- For the formatting of questionnaire entries, in case you wish to create a separate questionnaire, see the :doc:`DYFI Questionnaire API <dyfi-questionnaire-api>`.

- Code documentation can be found in the :doc:`Program List <modules>`.
